# Moving From Bash to Loksh
*Date: 17-08-2024 *

[Loksh](https://github.com/dimkr/loksh) is the [Linux](https://www.kernel.org/) port of the [OpenBSD](http://www.openbsd.org/)'s ksh shell.   

## The Switch  

I found Loksh to be more usable than other ksh variants, mainly community branch ksh93u+m provided in Void Linux Packages. The problem with ksh93u+m was that history was broken, I couldn't get history feature to work in it, well I would say that I didn't really tried that hard like 15 to 20 minutes to make it work.  

The OpenBSD project's main goal is to be as secure as possible. And as you can read from Loksh Github's README "Unlike other ports of *ksh*, loksh targets only one platform, follows upstream closely and [keeps changes to a minimum](https://github.com/dimkr/loksh/compare/upstream%2Fmaster...master). loksh does not add any extra features; this reduces the risk of introducing security vulnerabilities and makes loksh a good fit for resource-constrained systems.", It uses less resources while giving the same security features as in OpenBSD.  

I am not a power user with lot of shell scripts so the switch was almost painless.   

But I did requires some reading about setting up the prompt the way I like. But loksh makes is very easy with some similar features of Bash.  

One thing I should mention is that ksh is fast, faster than Bash. You can feel the increased responsiveness of the shell after immediate switch, like how you can feel the responsiveness when you move from a standard Desktop Environment's terminal to say Alacritty or St.   

And ksh is also more POSIX compliant than Bash. So, the added benefit is that the scripts that you will write with ksh will be portable or easy to port to other POSIX-compliant shells.  


## What I belive can be a issue:

1. The history of all sessions is merged into the single file i.e the history is shared across sessions. For example, if you open a terminal and type a command let us say "foo-bar" and you open another new terminal and type another command "bar-foo", then you can access in history of terminal 1 "bar-foo" as last run command. 
2. Many programs does not work with ksh for example starship, fzf etc.
3. If you coming from bash:  
    a. Many Bash shortcuts will not work, For example Ctrl-a will not take the cursor to the starting of prompt.  
    b. ``` source ``` does not work, instead ```.``` works. A common use case is to reload new changes in the ongoing session using ``` source ~/.bashrc ```, but in ksh ```. ~/.kshrc``` works. ```.kshrc``` file is to ksh what ```.bashrc``` is to Bash.



